>> Jen Kramer: We just want
to compare some code here.
Here's what happens with SASS.
Again, I'm assuming that most
of you are familiar with this.
It's a pre processor.
There's compiling that goes on.
So here, we declare a SASS variable.
We can call it right
referring to its name.
We have to compile it in order for
that color to show up in our CSS, right?
You know this.
With CSS, it's a little bit different.
We can just declare our color.
There's no compiling involved,
we just call it.
All right, so here is the code pen.
And here I'm working with SASS.
Is that font size big enough?
Can everybody see that?
Okay, so basically I've got an H1,
I've got a paragraph,
I've got an article, okay.
There's an article,
more paragraphs and stuff.
And so what I've done over here in my SASS
is I've declared my color red, right.
In the article, I said my text
color will be that color, yeah, and
shockingly, my article is red.
Everybody's surprised by this?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, what happens
now if I say my color here is color.
>> Jen Kramer: Now all that stuff is red,
yeah?
Okay, what happens if I do this?
I'm gonna change my color.
So first of all you're a terrible
programmer, but what happens here
if I change my color value here,
what color are the paragraphs going to be?
>> Speaker 2: The new one
should be the new color.
>> Jen Kramer: Let's say
I'm gonna make them blue.
So how many of you say it's still red?
This is a scoping question, right?
How many of you say, yeah,
it's totally still red.
How many of you say it's gonna be blue?
Okay, so pretty much everybody
here says it's gonna blue.
So we are gonna make it blue.
The paragraphs are inside of the article
so here we have a red on the article.
That still takes effect on the heading,
but then I read a clear my color to
be blue, the paragraphs are gonna be blue
even that paragraph here becomes blue,
because that declaration of color is
closer to the actual words, right.
This is one of those just straight
CSS inheritance kind of things and so
we wind up with blue colors for
a paragraph.
All right, remember the other
part of scoping for SASS?
What happens if I
re-declare my color here?
Let's say I make it green,
what's gonna happen now?
>> Jen Kramer: How many say
the paragraph's gonna be red?
How many say the paragraphs
are gonna be blue?
How many sig paragraphs
are gonna be green?
Pretty much everybody say's
they're gonna be green.
Shockingly, they are green, okay?
And that's because I redeclared it
locally inside of the paragraph.
We need a SASS class?
Okay, this is all variables,
this is all scoping.
And that's why I'm focused on this.
So this is the way it
normally works in SASS, okay?
Let's take a quick look at this and,
with CSS variables.
It's the same kind of example.
>> Jen Kramer: Anybody
have any questions so far?
That's literally all the SASS
we're gonna do today.
We did it, we're done.
Okay, so here,
I've got my route declaration,
right, my color is declared as red.
I'm calling it there in my article.
There it is.
And shockingly, my article is now red.
Okay, so
let's do the same thing that I did before.
So basically what I'm going to do now is,
let's see.
>> Jen Kramer: I'll put it right here.
>> Jen Kramer: So
I'm gonna redeclare my color here.
And I'm gonna make it,
I'm gonna make it blue.
What color is my article
going to be at this point?
How many say it's gonna be red?
How many say it's gonna blue?
Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Sure enough, it's blue.
What happens if I take this?
>> Jen Kramer: Actually, all of this.
>> Jen Kramer: Not that.
>> Jen Kramer: And I'm gonna paste that
same declaration here into my paragraph.
So I'm gonna redeclare my
paragraphs as blue, okay?
By redefining my variable and calling
the color of my paragraph to be blue,
how many say that my paragraphs
are going to be blue?
>> Jen Kramer: How many say
they're going to be red?
How many say they're going to be black?
Okay, so if I put it here, okay.
Making sense, sort of?
What if I move this color
blue back here to article?
>> Jen Kramer: What's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 2: Paragraph should stay red.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
if I move this back, all right?
Let me put all this up here.
So the root color is red.
Right now what we have going
on the root color is red
I've called the article to be read,
I've called paragraph to be read.
So sure enough, all the paragraphs
are read and the article is read, yeah?
If I put in here inside of article,
I'm gonna redeclare my color to be blue.
What's gonna happen here on the page?
How many said paragraphs
are going to be red?
How many say the paragraphs
are gonna be blue?
Lots of people are totally confused.
Okay, so you're kind of both right.
So the first paragraph is
gonna be red because here
this paragraph is taking it from red,
yeah.
And here, the color is coming.
It was redeclared as blue, p inherits
that, cuz we scoped the variable, right?
>> Jen Kramer: [SOUND] Yeah,
cuz we're scoping variables by
where we're declaring things here.
This is actually part
of the power of this.
That's also the part of what's
gonna cause you headaches,
cuz you gotta remember how CSS works.
This is all straight CSS.
This is nothing special
about custom properties.
This is all about
inheritance in the cascade.
>> Jen Kramer: How are you doing so far?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, it gets better.
Cuz some of you look afraid,
[LAUGH] it's gonna get better, all right?
Don't write your code like this.
This is terrible methodology.
All right, don't do this.
All right, so let's go on back and
finish this up here.
So now you might be wondering about,
when am I gonna use SASS and
when am I gonna use
these custom properties?
And is SASS dead.
So a lot of people ask me at this point,
is SASS dead?
What do you guys think?
Do you think SASS is dead,
we're done with it?
>> Speaker 2: It depends.
>> Jen Kramer: It depends, great answer.
What does it depend on?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH].
Browser support needs.
>> Jen Kramer: Browser support
is definitely a thing, but
let's set that aside and say we have
perfect browser support because
in my world, we only support the latest
version of Chrome and Firefox.
It's a beautiful world.
There's rainbows and
unicorns everywhere, okay?
So in that world,
what else, what's better?
SASS, variables, is SASS dead?
Are we done with it?
What else is saas good for?
>> Speaker 3: Mixes are great.
>> Jen Kramer: Mixes are great, what else?
>> Speaker 3: Leaving out curly braces.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah,
leaving out the curly braces,
all the nesting stuff,
isn't that fabulous?
Yeah, that's the little thing with
SASS can't do it with CSS, what else?
Extends?
>> Speaker 3: Nesting?
>> Jen Kramer: Extends?
>> Speaker 3: Nesting.
>> Jen Kramer: Nesting, extends,
partial files.
All those things are still things, right?
So SASS is not dead.
But now we can do the same kind
of thing in both places, so
what are we going to do?
How do we separate things into
custom properties versus SASS?
And here's my advice on that, so
what I would suggest you use your SASS for
is things that are going to never change.
So your colors,
your font families, and so forth.
Things that are not going to
change across your media queries.
Because the big advantage of custom
properties is that you can change your
values across media queries.
Just like you do now with CSS, right?
Okay, in SASS,
you can't take your color of red and
then go to your media query and
make it now green.
I don't know why you'd do that,
but you can't do it, right?
And then redeclare your variable again
in another media query and make it blue.
That just doesn't work with SASS.
You can do that with custom properties.
And that is the big,
big take home from today.
So the things that are going to
change in the media queries.
So the things you're gonna copy and
paste and reinstate over and over again or
things like your font size, your margin,
your padding, your widths, flex basis,
all those kinds of properties.
You repeat those over and
over again, what we're gonna do is
change the value of the variable.
Its gonna be a beautiful thing.
Outside that media query in the Mobile CSS
layout, you establish your logic for
the layout, and then inside the media
queries all we do is change values.
My gosh, your webpage just shrunk big time
because we don't have to restate
ourselves over and over again.
All we do now is change the values
of variables, makes sense?
Everybody excited,
this is gonna be amazing.
The result is no duplicated code.
We now have just different values,
just different values.
The logic will always be the same.
The values will be different, okay?
As I said, this is the article, one of the
many articles that you could take a look
at about CSS variables and JavaScript,
so feel free to take a look at that.
I have a whole bunch of resources
from which we are going to derive
the rest of the course today on Flexbox,
Gridsystems Grid, Cal Customer properties,
all kinds of wonderful stuff.
That's where you can go and
read all of those.